We're gonna go on we're gonna
do one more graph algorithm.
I'm very excited about this graph
algorithm It's called Ford-Fulkerson.
Has anyone heard of Ford-Fulkerson?
Well, you can say Fulkerson like
Fulkerson it just sounds fun.
I don't know what it is about it but
it's a great one.
This one is called max flow min cut,
all right?
There the same problem in some sense.
It's very, very exciting.
And I have this little note right here and
I kid you not it literally
says car algo British people.
That's what it says because it's very
fantastic I'll explain that one sec.
I just want to leave you guys with
that one because it's super exciting.
All right, so
I have this really I actually have
one right here that's super good.
So, we'll do this I know,
car algorithm British people,
classic phrase you hear on the regular.
Now, usually whenever we're
doing a max flow problem,
they always are directed graphs, right?
It would be kinda weird to try to do
an undirected situation going on here but
in some sense they're
also undirected graphs.
Now you're probably hearing that going
well that doesn't make much more sense
that makes frankin sense I'm gonna put
a 0/10, 0/8, 0/5, 0/5,
0/5, 0/8 did I get that right?
I guess it really didn't matter 0/6,
0/8 hold on one second,
there's a little bit of setup to this.
All right, a maximum flow problem usually
starts off with something called a source.
We pretend the source
has an infinite input.
It can just keep on putting
stuff into the graph.
We have a sync our destination.
Where do we want to go?
T for sync, of course,
because well source and
sync I mean just really truly unfortunate.
And you also didn't use any other
letters from the word sync it's t, okay?
That's just what we do here.
You'll notice that instead
of having a weight,
we have a weight with like a zero on it.
And so what that means is that's how
much flow is in this current point.
Now, okay people are saying t or
terminal or terminus.
Okay, tough guy I'm gonna say t for sync.
Okay, and so our goal is try to
maximize the flow through this network.
You can imagine this could be used for
networks.
Remember how I said I'll graph
problems come down to networks.
We can imagine that's what you're trying
to do is try to figure that out or
traffic, traffic is kinda like another
way you could do something as they
have to figure out how to
get enough stuff through.
The Ford-Fulkerson algorithm does
not specify how you choose a path
from s to t that's like
choose your own adventure.
You could do a depth-first search,
you could do a breadth-first search,
there's something called Dynex algorithm.
You could do all sorts of different stuff
we're just gonna keep it simple and
I'm just gonna draw a path, okay?
I have eyeballs,
I'm pretty good at making paths for
stuff in order to kinda choose a path.
Eventually you will hit a maximum flow.
So let's just start kind of by example.
So I'm gonna choose this top
route right here, very simple.
And then what you do is you find the
minimum flow throughout that top route.
I have a seven, ten, eight.
It's obviously a seven that means I can
use seven units of flow right here, I can
use seven units of flow right here and
I can use seven units of flow right here.
Next, we'll choose this one.
I can choose a, this one has a here,
I'm gonna erase this and
I'm just gonna reuse these lines again.
This one has a flow of six, this one has a
flow of eight, this one has a flow of one.
There's only one unit left in this in
this pipe so that means we can use one.
So I could draw a little one right here,
I could draw a little one right here and
I can draw an 8 right here we've
maximized our flow right there.
Well we still have another side so I can
do a five, five, ten our minimum flow or
our maximum flow we can get
through this is five, right?
Because this is our
smallest pipe right here,
all right, five, five, five.
And so there's no other path left in this
graph because if I try to go up here,
it's already full.
If I try to go over here,
you can't get to this node without going
through this one which is already full.
So therefore, this is our max
flow of the graph which is 13.
That is our maximum flow, which our
minimum cut of the graph is also 13.
And a cut is defined in how do you remove,
how do you break apart
the graph such that the source and
the sync can no longer touch.
They're no longer in the same sub graph.
So that's called the minimum cut,
the minimal amount of value
you can cut through this.
I'll show you what that means here in a
moment that's the whole car British people
thing that I was talking about but
keep that in mind, okay,